Initial Developer Documentation (#148)
10up/plugin-check: docs/introduction.md

# Introduction

> The Plugin Checker is a WordPress plugin that can check a plugin for potential problems around plugin development best practices, with a focus on performance and security.

Reviewer: Given our current realignment of the purpose and goal of the plugin checker, can you remove this part and instead make "Technical Overview" the heading of this doc (and also change the file name accordingly)?

Reviewer 2: Addressed in https://github.com/10up/plugin-check/pull/148/commits/d8b50f471437e9d60817ec1774199bf3474eb788

## Technical Overview

The Plugin Checker works by running checks against a single plugin. Each check will test for a specific issue and raise either an error or warning depending on the severity.

The Plugin Checker performs these checks following the process below.

1. Determine Checks to run based on the request.
2. Setup the Runtime Environment if required.
3. Run any Check Preparations required to prepare the environment.
4. Run all Checks against the plugin.
5. Clean up the Runtime Environment.

> 6. Report all Errors and Warnings raised by the checks run.

Reviewer: Nit-pick: You use a lot of unnecessary capitalization here. Terms like "Checks", "Runtime", "Errors", etc. are just regular words, so should be lower-case. This applies throughout the PR, it would be great if you could revise the articles to avoid unnecessary capitalization (except in headings where that is fine).

Let's just keep "Plugin Checker" capitalized as is, even if that may not end up being the final name of the tool. It'll make it easy to search+replace later.

> 6. Report all Errors and Warnings raised by the checks run.

Reviewer: The two mentions about "runtime environment" here feel too in-depth for the very first thing to read in the technical overview. Since it's not explained what that is right away, I think it's better to exclude those two points to keep the first explanation simple.

Reviewer 2: Updated in https://github.com/10up/plugin-check/pull/148/commits/d8b50f471437e9d60817ec1774199bf3474eb788

## Checks
Checks are single PHP classes that run code to test a plugin for a specific problem.

> Every Check will contain a `run()` method which accepts an instance of the `Check_Results` class. The `Check_Results` object is used to add any errors or warnings raised by the Check to be reported later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every check contains a `run()` method which accepts an instance of the `Check_Result` class. The `Check_Result` instance is used to add any errors or warnings raised by the check to be reported later.
```

Currently, static and runtime checks are the 2 types of checks that can be run by the Plugin Checker.

### Static Checks

> Static checks are used to perform tests against the codebase without running any code. This is simillar to other static analysis tools such as PHP Code Sniffer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Static checks are used to perform tests against the codebase without running any code. This is similar to other static analysis tools such as PHP Code Sniffer.
```

> Static checks are one of the simplest checks to implement and can be used to run existing code standards sniffs, such as those in the WordPress Coding Standards, against a plugin as part of the Plugin Checker test process.

Reviewer: I think we should remove the first point on static checks being particularly simple to implement - that's arbitrary and not really true - only if you use PHPCS sniffs that already exist. We could instead focus on how those would typically be implemented.
```suggestion
Static checks can run existing PHPCodeSniffer sniffs, such as those in the [WordPress Coding Standards](https://github.com/WordPress/WordPress-Coding-Standards), or they can be implemented in a more manual way, e.g. searching for specific patterns across all files, similar to how the checks of the [WordPress Theme Check tool](https://github.com/WordPress/theme-check) are implemented.
```

### Runtime Checks

Runtime checks perform tests by executing the code within a test environment. The plugin code is required to run in order to test a specific output.

As runtime checks execute code against a test environment they often include preparations in order to prepare the runtime environment with required configuration ahead of check being performed.

### Preparations

> Preparations are used to prepare the test environment ahead of running a check to ensure that the tests run correctly.

Reviewer: Maybe clarify that they are only relevant for runtime checks?
```suggestion
Preparations are used to prepare the test environment ahead of running a runtime check to ensure that they run correctly.
```

> Preparations can include any logic from activating specific themes or plugins, or creating test content to perform checks against.

Reviewer: I think the example of activating themes and plugins is very specific to the overall preparation, but I doubt that'll be very relevant for the average preparation in the future (e.g. we wouldn't want to activate another plugin when that's not the one tested). Maybe mention another kind of more generally applicable preparation instead?
```suggestion
Preparations can include any logic from adding filters, or creating test content to perform checks against.
```

Preparations can be created as part of the check where the logic contained within the Checks `prepare()` method. Alternatively, preparations can also be created as individual classes so that they may be reusued within other checks.

> All preparations return a clean up function which is called after the check run is complete to reverse the changes made by the preparation.

Reviewer: Maybe it's easier to first focus on the preparation itself, and then mention that they could also be incorporated in a check?
```suggestion
Every preparation contains a `prepare()` method, which returns a cleanup function that is called to revert the changes made by that method. Preparations can be implemented as their individual classes or alternatively as part of a specific check.
```

## The Test Environment

When running a Runtime Check the Plugin Checker creates a Runtime Environment in which to perform checks against. This environment is separate from the production environment in order to prevent making changes to the existing site.

> The environment is also configured with a minimal setup by using a basic theme and only activating the test plugin. This is to ensure checks only raise errors and warnings for the plugin being tested.

Reviewer: I find the content of this section a bit confusing, we probably need to keep it at a higher level for this technical overview. Also the part of "creates a Runtime Environment" sounds odd, as if the plugin would create a separate environment, e.g. a Docker environment.

Maybe we should instead more generally focus on things like:
* using a separate set of database tables when running runtime checks
* ensuring that only the plugin checked is active when running runtime checks

Last but not least, this section would be good to end with a disclaimer to clarify that despite these best efforts to avoid impacting the actual WordPress site, it is recommended to not use the plugin checker on a production site for runtime checks.

Reviewer 2: I have updated the document based on feedback. Can you please take a look. Thanks!

## Creating custom checks

> Custom checks can be created to perform specific tests as part of the Plugin Checker process. Custom checks can be contributed to the main repository or created outside of the main repo and added via the `wp_plugin_check_checks` filter.

Reviewer: I think we should remove this from here, as it's two technical. How to add a check into the list of checks should be part of the documentation on writing the specific checks.
